q:Profit is the payment made for land resources.
w:True
x:False
q:Exhibit 2.7
i:ch2.exibit.2.7.jpg
l:Refer to Exhibit 2.7, which shows the production possibilities frontier for capital goods and consumer goods. Identify the correct statement.
w:If the economy is initially at point c, an increase in capital stock will lead to a movement to point b. 
w:If the economy is initially at point b, an increase in capital stock will lead to a movement to point c.
w:Economic growth will allow the economy to produce at a point that lies on a lower production possibilities frontier.
w:If the economy is initially at point a, an improvement in the rules of the game will lead to a movement to point c.
x:Economic growth will allow the economy to produce at a point that lies on a higher production possibilities frontier.
q:Exhibit 2.2
i:ch2.exibit.2.2.jpg
l:Refer to Exhibit 2.2, which shows the production possibilities frontier for Good A and Good B. If given the quantity of resources and level of technology, which of the following points is unattainable?
x:e
w:g
w:h
w:b
w:I
q:In economics, capital is defined as _____
w:the willingness of business owners to take risks.
w:the money exchanged in the underground economy.
w:the number of people in the labor force.
w:natural resources, such as water, oil, and iron ore.
x:all human creations used to produce goods and services.
q:Opportunity costs exist because _____
w:the value of lost opportunities varies.
w:technology is fixed.
w:efficiency is measured by the monetary cost of an activity
w:of comparative advantage.
x:resources are scarce but wants are unlimited.
q:A country has an absolute advantage in the production of a good if that country _____
x:can produce the good using fewer resources than another country would require.
w:has the lowest opportunity cost of producing the good, regardless of whether it is produced using the fewest resources.
w:has the greatest opportunity cost of producing the good, regardless of whether it is produced using the fewest resources.
w:has the lowest opportunity cost of producing the good and can sell it at the highest price.
w:has the greatest opportunity cost of producing the good and can sell it at the highest price.
q:Hans can do 4 loads of laundry or type 6 pages in an hour. Heidi can do 12 loads of laundry or type 8 pages in an hour. Which of the following is correct?
w:Hans has an absolute advantage in doing laundry.
x:Heidi has both an absolute and a comparative advantage in doing laundry.
w:Heidi has both an absolute and a comparative advantage in typing.
w:Heidi has a comparative advantage in both typing and doing laundry.
w:Hans has both an absolute and a comparative advantage in typing.
q:Exhibit 2.2
i:ch2.exibit.2.2.jpg
l:Refer to Exhibit 2.2, which shows the production possibilities frontier for Good A and Good B. When moving from point f to point g, the production of _____
x:Good B increases and the production of Good A decreases.
w:both Good A and Good B decreases.
w:both Good A and Good B increases.
w:Good A increases without a change in the production of Good B.
w:Good B increases without a change in the production of Good A.
Resources can be divided into _____
w:savings, spending, investment, and capital.
w:income, interest, and expenditure.
w:people, money, and machines.
w:human resources, technology, and government.
x:natural resources, labor, capital, and entrepreneurial ability.
q:Hans can do 4 loads of laundry and type 6 pages per hour. Heidi can do 12 loads of laundry and type 8 pages per hour. Hans’s opportunity cost of doing one load of laundry is _____
x:equal to typing 1 1/2 pages.
w:equal to typing 12 papers.
w:equal to typing 2/3 of a page.
w:equal to typing 8 papers.
w:impossible to compute without additional information.
q:Entrepreneurial ability is rewarded by _____
w:dividends.
w:rent.
w:interest.
x:profit.
w:wages.
q:Exhibit 2.2
i:ch2.exibit.2.2.jpg
l:Refer to Exhibit 2.2, which shows the production possibilities frontier for Good A and Good B. If all of the economy's resources are used efficiently to produce only Good B, then the economy will be at point _____.
w:i
x:g
w:b
w:h
w:e
q:In one week, Sami can knit 5 sweaters or bake 240 cookies. In one week, Leila can knit 15 sweaters or bake 480 cookies. Which of the following is correct?
w:Leila has an absolute and a comparative advantage in both tasks.
w:Sami has an absolute and a comparative advantage in both tasks.
x:Leila has an absolute advantage in both tasks and a comparative advantage in knitting sweaters.
w:Sami has an absolute advantage in both tasks and a comparative advantage in baking cookies.
w:Sami has an absolute advantage in both tasks and a comparative advantage in knitting sweaters.
q:Rent is the payment received by resource owners for the use of their natural resources.
x:True
w:False
q:Exhibit 2.2
i:ch2.exibit.2.2.jpg
l:Refer to Exhibit 2.2, which shows the production possibilities frontier for Good A and Good B. If all of the economy's resources are used efficiently to produce only Good A, then the economy will be at point _____.
w:e
w:b
x:i
w:h
w:g
q:An entrepreneur is _____
w:a person who is hired by a firm to manage its operations.
w:a person who is appointed by the board of directors of a firm for a term of five years.
w:a person who earns profit without accepting any risks.
x:an organizer who seeks profitable opportunities and is willing to accept risks.
w:an individual who has an education.
q:Hans can do 4 loads of laundry and type 6 pages per hour. Heidi can do 12 loads of laundry and type 8 pages per hour. Heidi’s opportunity cost of doing one load of laundry is _____
w:equal to typing 6 pages.
w:impossible to compute without additional information.
w:equal to typing 4 pages.
x:equal to typing 2/3 of a page.
w:equal to typing 3/2 of a page.
q:Exhibit 2.2
i:ch2.exibit.2.2.jpg
l:Refer to Exhibit 2.2, which shows the production possibilities frontier for Good A and Good B. Which of the following points represents an inefficient use of the economy’s resources?
x:f
w:d
w:e
w:h
w:i
q:An economist would classify 100 shares of Apple Computers as capital.
w:True
x:False
q:Exhibit 2.2
i:ch2.exibit.2.2.jpg
l:Refer to Exhibit 2.2, which shows the production possibilities frontier for Good A and Good B. If resources are used fully and efficiently, then the economy can produce at point(s) _____
w:a or b
w:f
w:d or e
x:g, h, or i
w:c
