q:All economic models must involve simplifications because _____
w:human behavior is very erratic and unpredictable.
x:reality is too complex to understand in its entirety, so we must reduce the complexity to a level that we can understand.
w:economists would be unable to command high salaries if their models were too simple.
w:economists try to cover all the possible variables.
w:we must ignore complexity.
q:Economists generally believe that _____
w:a. a rational individual will pursue an activity if the total cost of the activity is more than the total benefit from it.
w:b. decision makers never make mistakes.
x:a rational individual will pursue an activity if the total benefit of the activity is more than the total cost of the activity.
w:d. economic decisions result from random behavior.
w:e. a rational individual will pursue an activity if the average cost of the activity is equal to the total benefit from it.
q:Which of the following is a normative economic statement?
Selected Answer: 	
c. Congress must recognize that the growing national debt is the most serious problem that the country faces.
w:The unemployment rate among teenagers is higher than the rate among adults.
w:The unemployment rate increases when the percentage of the labor force without jobs increases.
x:Congress must recognize that the growing national debt is the most serious problem that the country faces.
w:The U.S. rate of unemployment was lower in 2004 than it was in 1994.
w:Savings accounts earn interest, whereas checking accounts do not.
q:The ceteris paribus assumption is the other-things-constant assumption.
x:True
w:False
q:As a scientist, an economist's main professional objective is to become wealthy.
w:True
x:False
q:Your best friend buys you lunch on your birthday. You think this was not a free lunch because _____
x:the resources used to produce the lunch were not available to satisfy other wants.
w:you can eat only if you work out first.
w:even if you didn’t pay in dollars for it, you paid for it in extra calories.
w:neither sea water nor air is free.
w:you disagree with the expression "the best things in life are free."
q:Microeconomics is the study of _____
x:the economic behavior of individual decision makers.
w:the government's role as a distributor in an economy.
w:the government's role as a producer in an economy.
w:the effect of an increase in money supply on interest rates.
w:the effect of an increase in interest rates on the level of investment in an economy.
q:Economics is best defined as the study of how _____
d. people make decisions in a world of scarcity.
w:governments can influence the social structure.
w:to change the class structure of an economy.
w:to separate the executive from the legislature and the judiciary.
x:people make decisions in a world of scarcity.
w:individuals can participate in electing their representatives to the government.
q:By rational, economists mean that people _____
w:try to maximize the cost of achieving a benefit.
x:try to make the best choices they can.
w:know with certainty which alternative will turn out to be the best.
w:try to minimize the expected benefit achieved.
w:think only of themselves.
q:Which of the following would be a topic considered in the field of macroeconomics?
w:The study of the causes of the relocation of U.S. manufacturing firms to China
w:The study of the differences in wages between men and women in the United States
w:The study of the effect of rent control on the housing market in New York City
w:The study of the impact of environmental regulations on the production levels of firms
x:The study of the growth of the Chinese economy
q:Macroeconomics is the study of _____
x:the behavior of the economy as a whole.
w:the profit-maximizing behavior of producers.
w:the behavior of large firms in a market.
w:how to use the least amount of natural resources to produce goods and services.
w:utility-maximization by consumers.
q:Economists believe that _____
w:the notion of self-interest rules out concern for others.
w:people who choose to promote the interests of others cannot be acting rationally.
w:people show concern only for those whom they know personally.
w:charitable donations would disappear if tax deductions for charitable giving were eliminated.
x:concern for the welfare of others is consistent with the concept of self-interest.
q:Scarcity occurs when the amount people desire is less than the amount available at a zero price.
w:True
x:False
q:The difference between positive economic statements and normative economic statements is that _____
w:positive statements are based on opinion, while normative statements are always true.
w:positive statements are based on opinion, while normative statements are based on fact.
w:positive statements are true and normative statements are often false.
w:positive statements are often false and normative statements are true.
x:positive statements are based on fact, while normative statements are based on opinion.
q:A rational decision maker will take only those actions for which the expected marginal benefit _____
w:is at its maximum level.
x:is greater than or equal to the expected marginal cost.
w:is positive.
w:exactly equals the total cost.
w:is less than the expected marginal cost.
